Hello again lovely God.
People in this video we're going to add the food to food fight.
We want food flowing and fire projectiles in three dimensions.
This is something that comes up a lot again.
If we want to project asked to be something other than a ray.
Right so we could use a break cast in 3-d.
And you say you start here and you immediately land that if we want to physically model a projectile
moving through space how do we do that.
Well first let's talk about what we want our project to be because this game has lots of fun silly furniture
flying around the place and bystanders being hit by food.
I want a rigid body because we use lots of physics.
I guess I want collisions I want things flying off and I want these projectiles to be randomly selected.
It's not just going to be a single item of food you don't just throw hotdogs and it's not going to go
through them in order.
It's not hamburger hotdog cake hamburger hotdog cake.
So we've got two major things we need to do.
So let's get into godda and the first thing it does is.
Oh no my level has vanished.
That's because my basic level the default level is level template and I no longer want that to be the
case.
So we were to project settings and in config I'm going to change my default level.
I actually don't mean config I mean runs I mean hit run and I don't want level templates.
Let's go to the folder hit file and the scenes levels.
Level 1.
Great.
Level 1 is now by default level.
So that's what's going to open each time.
Let's open that right now.
Level template up in the background in case I want to add a thing.
OK so here is our level and we want a way of adding to it.
First thing I want to do is know where the food is going to launch from.
I don't want the food to launch from inside the character of the feet or from the head.
So I'm going to open the player that's close walls to play a scene and I can open it inside the character.
And the reason I'm doing this is NPR sees who will also be who also inherit the character scene are
going to have the same attribute on a fire project off from a place.
So let's add a position 3D not exactly like a position to me but this is a position 3D.
And let's say you launch frahm what looks good.
It's here to change that.
And I'm gonna call that forward.
Let's just do a quick sanity check.
Save that and go to the mail player.
Where is forward forward is off to the side and where the hell is okay.
Why are you off to the side.
Because that's not forward.
If I look at my plam I want blue it's forward not red.
Well that's fine.
I can fix that.
So I'm going to move forward to over here.
Now all this is doing is marking a position.
This is marking which direction is forward.
Should turn off snap and move that to a slightly better place.
Think about that.
There.
This is where the project is going to go say that and like there is forward.
Fantastic.
Next thing I need to do is create a scene for the projectile.
Let's do that now and go make a new scene and my base is going to be a rigid body.
That's my bass note and I'm going to call this projectile.
Now all the other types of projectile the hamburger the hot dog everything else are going to inherit
from this.
But I really mean I need a few things.
The first is the projector has a mesh sallus given it mesh instance and as a default I'm just going
to give it a cylinder not a cylinder.
I lied.
I mean a sphere.
Not sure why I thought the two things were interchangeable then.
And I want a collision.
So that's two nice colours and a collision shape ixo and that's also going to be a sphere.
Now each individual projectile might have a different shape collision.
This is a good starting point and I can tweak the original inheriting scene so that if we need all of
them to bigger audiences smaller That's easy enough to do.
But here is what our basic projects can look like.
Let's say that the scenes end in ammo.
I'm going to put it right in here.
And to save projectile TSC.
Okay let's talk about what happens when we fire.
I'm actually at this in character not in the player.
Now that's a slight problem because if we look at the script player dodgy disinherits of kit kinematic
body.
Now I'm saying I want to inherit from the character right the character is going to have something called
fire that both players and non player characters can do.
So I need to change what this extends well that's okay I can do that.
First let's go into character.
Make a new scene and I call it character Judy.
And as you might expect I'm going to put it in my scripts folder.
Character is not Judy.
And there it is.
Now I'm don't you go find it in Scripps.
I'm going to right click on character and do copy part back into play a lot.
And instead of it extends kinematic body I'm going to put some quotes in and just place that in.
So this script will now extend character.
Judge Judy let's make sure it's working.
I run the getting.
Everything works exactly as it did before.
So we now have a working script for the player there's extending from the carroty dodginess script.
Great.
So what do we want encouraged thought Judy.
Well the first thing I want is a function called fire.
And it's probably called Fire.
It's in my past for now.
Let's actually make fire do something.
I'm going to go in to my impact maps and I need to add a new action.
My action is going to be caught fire.
I'm going to map this to a mouse button.
It's going to be a left mouse button on device era.
It's theoretically possible to have multiple mice.
I've only got one and I want the left mouse spun.
There it is.
Let's just check that works some new function.
I'm going to put this as an input USCO all the way to the bottom and say function in.
If event Scott a distraction free mode there were no events if input.
What I mean is action pressed.
I mean just pressed because I'm not gonna hold it down and I want fire.
Let's just take it works right Soldo prints were missing.
They're on fire.
Get out of distraction free mode.
Pressplay and fire.
Great.
Every time I press the button we see fire.
Awesome.
Clear that.
And I probably don't need it.
I guess that's not going to happen if that then this went to run the fire thing let's just check that
works into my character script and do the exact same thing just to make sure that the chain works great.
So now when I press Fire.
Fire comes up in the output.
Awesome.
Well I don't want to print the what file I want to spawn a child I want to spawn a projectile a bullet
and that bullet is going to go forward.
We have built a little bit of what we're talking about with bases matrices.
So first thing I need to do is define what the bullets going to be.
So this week a new variable within this function I'm gonna call it a bullet.
And that's going to be well let's get the path right load.
I can find our bullet in the scenes scenes and there is a projectile.
So Copic path I'm going to load this in.
Well essentially to load this in.
But actually I don't want to just load the scene.
I want an instance of the seats I love use.
Instance.
Now I want to add that to the scene and child.
Bullet bullet is this file with added this file as an instance of the sea and specifically it's going
to be a child of a character in our case here.
It's a child of the player.
OK.
But Help wanted to be a child of the play.
And the reason why is when I move the player the bullet will move relative to the play.
And that's terrible.
Not terrible but inconvenient on a set.
This as the top level is going to be a direct child of the of the root of this scene.
Okay how do I do that.
Well luckily spatial can do that for us.
If I open up the classes and type in special we see a bunch of different methods.
And one of them is this one here set as toplevel makes that note ignore its parents transformations.
Perfect exactly what we want.
So let's do that as do bullet Dot sat as top level.
And this takes an argument enable or disable.
Well I want this enabled so little but true.
Awesome.
All right so we've spawned a ball and we've told it you don't take the same transform as your as your
parent.
Right so ignore where your parents and space and where is moving and everything else.
And now we want the bullet to actually move.
Okay it's going to be fired.
Well we can do that.
Let's go.
Bullet.
Got global underscored transform.
And what they're going to be.
Well we already have forward for this very reason right something for a global currency.
So what you just told it is your position is now where the forward child of this node is so on the player.
FORD No they're on the NPC for dinner there.
Okay so we move the bullet.
Now we want to move in space of the need to project speed so sign for a new instance variable and call
this variable projectile speed.
And you know what this is probably a constant So let's make this a constant and call that projectile
speed because this is not going be changed at run time.
If I wanted a change at run time if I wanted a game with power ups it speed up or down.
Well that's that's how I'd do it.
But cosmical projectile speed and I'm going to set this to what's a good number I don't say 50.
I can always change it later.
Okay.
So how do you use that well first I need to know which way is the character facing and then I need to
say how fast you go.
So let's make new variable to figure out which way the characters faces character forward loops king
of typing.
And what's that's going to be get global transform.
And that's a function or a method rather.
And one of these is the basis right.
We've been working with basis is exactly the case we need it for.
And I'm looking specifically for which direction of facing an x y z.
That's the second one.
I can also type in Z here but I'm a Type in to just say could see the x y and z adjust positions within
the array.
And I want this normalized.
So we've defined which way is forward so we know where the bullet starts and which way it should be
facing.
So let's make it do something bullet set linear velocity and that's going to be character forward times.
Project speed.
Okay.
Let's see if that works or Pressplay.
A giant thing comes in a look at that.
That is really fun.
This project are way too big but I can fix that a second.
One more thing I want to check just in case something goes wrong.
Let's make sure that the bullet can't hit the player.
Now I do want to add some collision masks.
But even before I do that let's go bullet dot and on a scale collision exception with.
Self.
Where am I getting that from.
Well that's a physics body function.
So this means when we start adding behaviour it for some reason forwards in the wrong place and this
spawns in inside the character that's firing it.
It doesn't matter because now I can fire a bunch of these now sometimes I'm firing multiples.
The reason is I've put no kind of time and I can just keep firing them and if I keep going eventually
this is going to go horrifically wrong.
You'll also notice that looking up doesn't change it.
And the reason is I've locked which way forward is if we wanted this to be a little different I wouldn't
actually put forward on the play I put on the camera but the player can't look up or down.
We've locked that in the player movement right in the camera script right here.
So what I've got is an ability to aim anywhere on the x and z axis and not on the Y.
Okay let's alter this projectile real quick.
Go to 3D Moto X I'm doing this is tube excel at Transformer you guys are at point five.
I will just go to the In Shape and move the radius to zero point five.
Awesome explain.
Great.
All right.
Right now this isn't food right.
This is Madden.
No ping pong balls.
A ball crawl of a ball crawl simulator.
I feel like I'm at Chucky Cheese in the States.
It's the best thing ever.
You also notice these things are very heavy.
I can't push them out the way I like a change.
That's what in a projectile.
And change the mass massive zero point five for example.
I can also change the speed that they're fine at that.
So now there's a mass there floating out the way I could kick some of them being wedged down the way
I'm not quite heavy enough but I can tweak all of these values.
So far so good but I don't want these to fill up the entire screen.
So I've got a challenge for you.
I'd like you to clean up the food.
I realize right now it's not food.
It will be soon but I'd like you to clean up the food.
Have the food vanish after a set amount of time.
Pause the video have the food vanish after a few seconds.
I don't know.
Three seconds a second.
Pick a number you like when you have a solution you like come back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
All right so to do this I want a projectile script right before I do anything else.
I'm going to need to interact with this project us.
I'm going to create a project script in my scripts folder so into scripts It's called Project projectile
Judy.
Good name.
Ellen's going to create a script.
Great.
Now I'm going to add a new node.
It's going to be a timer.
We used a few of these.
So there's a wait time for three seconds.
It's going to auto start and I'm going to connect it to it's perrottet on time out.
And all I do is say Q3.
And now I press play.
One two three.
Boop.
I have Fill this with food and it'll all vanish.
And that feels like a pretty goods start to our food firing system right.
There's a few things we still need to add.
I need to make sure that you can't keep firing food.
Eventually going to have an ammunition system in place to stop the feet from wobbling around.
But we're off to a pretty solid start for this game and the food isn't changing direction.
If I change direction right we've solved that problem and the food even interacts with itself.
Some great physics going on here.
So that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've learned how to spawn a projectile and have it move in the direction the player is
facing without moving with the player which is key.
Any kind of third person action game shooter or anything like that.
This is a really good technique to have so excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.